>> Woodruff: A RING OF FIRE
RAGED ON IN UKRAINE'S CAPITAL
CITY, DESPITE LATE WORD OF A
TRUCE BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND
PROTESTERS, WHO ARE STILL
CLINGING TO THEIR CHARRED,
SMOLDERING CAMP IN THE HEART OF
KIEV.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY, THE
DEBATE OVER THE MINIMUM WAGE.
A NONPARTISAN REPORT SAYS
BOOSTING IT WOULD MAKE A DENT IN
POVERTY.
BUT COULD ALSO LEAD TO FEWER
JOBS.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, THE STORY OF
AFGHANS WHO PUT THEIR LIVES ON
THE LINE THELPO  U.S. FORCES NOW
STRUGGLING TO GET VISAS AND FIND
SAFETY IN THE STATES.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST
SOME OF THE STORIES WE'RE
COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: UKRAINE'S PRO-RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT HAS ANNOUNCED A TRUCE
AFTER A LATE-NIGHT MEETING WITH
THE PRO-EUROPEAN OPPOSITION.
THAT FOLLOWS TUESDAY'S ALL-OUT
BATTLES AND BLOODSHED IN KIEV
THAT LEFT AT LEAST 26 DEAD AND
HUNDREDS WOUNDED.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM MATT FREI
OF INDEPENDENT TELEVISION NEWS.
>> Reporter: INDEPENDENCE SQUARE
IS A BUSY PLACE TODAY HUMMING
WITH THE SOLEMN INDUSTRY OF AN
ANT HILL.
LAST NIGHT THE TRADE UNION
BUILDING WHICH SERVED AS THE
HEADQUARTERS OF THE
REVOLUTION WAS BURNT DOWN.
TODAY THE WRECK AND ITS CON
AT ANY TIMES WERE ALREADY
BEING RECYCLED, AS BUILDING
MATERIALFOR S THE NEW SET OF
BARRICADES.
EVERYTHING AND ANYTHING WILL
DO, EVEN A HAIRDRESSER'S
CHAIR.
MEAN
MEANWHILE A POET WITH A KEEN EYE
ON A CAREER OPPORTUNITY MOUNTS
THE BARRICADES TO RECITE HIS
LATEST BALLAD.
BUT IF ALL THIS LOOKS LIKE EPIC
SET FOR A REVOLUTIONARY
NOSTALGIA FILM, DON'T BE FOOLED.
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF WALL OF
SMOKE THE RIOT POLICE DON'T MUCH
CARE FOR POETRY.
KIEV HAS BEEN MAINLY QUIET
TODAY, LICKING ITS WOUNDS BUT
THE UNREST IS SPREADING ACROSS
THE NATION.
THIS WAS IN WESTERN UKRAINE,
DEMONSTRATORS VENTING THEIR RAGE
ON A GOVERNMENT BUILDING.
SUDDENLY THERE'S AUTOMATIC
GUNFIRE.
A PROTESTER IS SHOT, APPARENTLY
IN THE HEAD.
WE HAVE NO IDEA IF THE WOMAN
SURVIVED OR WHO WAS SHOOTING BUT
IT IS BECOMING INCREASINGLY
OBVIOUS THAT THE UNREST IS
GETTING MORE CHAOTIC AND THAT
VIOLENCE IS BEING USED BY BOTH
SIDES AND THAT INCLUDES LIVE
AMMUNITION FOR FIRST TIME IN
THIS CRISIS.
LAST NIGHT IN KIEV THE POLICE
FINALLY USED ARMORED VEHICLES TO
RAM THE BARRICADES.
THE RIOT POLICE EMERGED SINGED
FROM THE BURNT OUT WRECKAGE.
THEY TOO HAVE SUFFERED
CASUALTIES BUT NOT NEARLY AS
MANY AS THE PROTESTERS.
IN WESTERN UKRAINE, ALWAYS A
HOTBED OF ANTI-RUSSIAN AND ANTI-
GOVERNMENT SENTIMENT, PROTESTERS
HAVE GONE ONE STEP FURTHER AND
EVEN DECLARED THEIR
INDEPENDENCE.
WITH HIS COUNTRY AND HIS
AUTHORITY DISINTEGRATING AROUND
HIM, PRESIDENT YANYUKOVICH WENT
ON PRIME TIME TELEVISION TO
DENOUNCE THE PROTESTERS AS
TERRORISTS AND TO ACCUSE THE
OPPOSITION LEADERS OF ATTEMPTING
TO STAGE A COUP.
THE FRONT LINE ON INDEPENDENCE
SQUARE RIGHT IN THE CENTER OF
KIEV HAS NEVER LOOKED THIS
CHAOTIC AND MESSY.
AND THE REAL QUESTION ESPECIALLY
AFTER ALL THE DEATHS LAST NIGHT
IS WHETHER THIS COULD NOW
ACTUALLY BECOME A CIVIL WAR.
SO MUCH IN THIS COUNTRY IS
DIVIDED AND THAT INCLUDES THE
ORTHODOX CHURCH.
THE BELLS OF ST. MICHAELS
CATHEDRAL, ONE OF UKRAINE'S MOST
BEAUTIFUL AND IMPORTANT, ARE
FRANTIC IN SUPPORT OF
REVOLUTION.
THE CHURCH ITSELF HAS BEEN
TRANSFORMED.
ST. MICHAELS IN KIEV NOW A FIELD
HOSPITAL FOR THE REVOLUTION.
THINK CHURCH TURNED E.R.
THE FLOOR HAS BECOME ONE GIANT
HOSPITAL BED.
>> Reporter: OUTSIDE
INDEPENDENCE SQUARE BURNS ONCE
AGAIN.
THE STAKES NEVER HIGHER, THE
OUTCOME NEVER CLEARER.
THE WORLD MORE WORRIED THAT WHAT
HAPPENS IN KIEV WILL NOT STAY IN
KIEV.
>> Ifill: THE VIOLENCE DREW
WIDESPREAD CONDEMNATION FROM
WORLD LEADERS, AND THREATS OF
SANCTIONS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA SPOKE IN TOLUCA,
MEXICO, AT A SUMMIT WITH THE
PRESIDENTS OF MEXICO AND CANADA.
>> WE EXPECT THE UKRANIAN
GOVERNMENT TO SHOW RESTRAINT, TO
NOT RESORT TO VIOLENCE IN
DEALING WITH PEACEFUL
PROTESTERS.
WE'VE SAID THAT WE ALSO EXPECT
PEACEFUL PROTESTERS TO REMAIN
PEACEFUL.
AND WE'LL BE MONITORING VERY
CAREFULLY THE SITUATION
RECOGNIZING THAT ALONG WITH OUR
EUROPEAN PARTNERS AND THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY THERE
WILL BE CONSEQUENCES IF PEOPLE
STEP OVER THE LINE.
>> Ifill: RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN SPOKE BY PHONE
OVERNIGHT WITH YANUKOVYCH.
THE KREMLIN SAID BOTH MEN VIEW
YESTERDAY'S EVENTS AS AN
ATTEMPTED COUP.
IN VENEZUELA, OPPOSITION LEADER
LEOPOLDO LOPEZ FACED A FIRST
APPEARANCE IN COURT ON CHARGES
OF INCITING VIOLENCE.
LOPEZ HAS BECOME THE FACE OF
DEMONSTRATIONS CALLING FOR THE
OUSTER OF SOCIALIST PRESIDENT
NICOLAS MADURO.
HE WAS TAKEN INTO CUSTODY
YESTERDAY.
WE'LL HAVE A FULL REPORT ON THE
SITUATION IN VENEZUELA, LATER IN
THE PROGRAM.
A COURT IN THAILAND HAS ORDERED
THE GOVERNMENT THERE TO STOP
USING FORCE AGAINST THE
OPPOSITION.
THAT FOLLOWS CLASHES BETWEEN
RIOT POLICE AND PROTESTERS THAT
KILLED FIVE PEOPLE YESTERDAY.
THOUSANDS OF DEMONSTRATORS
RALLIED TODAY OUTSIDE THE
TEMPORARY OFFICE OF EMBATTLED
PRIME MINISTER YINGLUCK
SHINAWATRA.
THEY WAVED FLAGS AND SHOUTED
SLOGANS DEMANDING HER
RESIGNATION.
AT THE WINTER OLYMPICS, A
PROTEST AGAINST RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT PUTIN DREW A VIOLENT
RESPONSE TODAY IN SOCHI.
COSSACK MILITIAMEN WITH
HORSEWHIPS BEAT AND MANHANDLED
MEMBERS OF THE PUNK GROUP PUSSY
RIOT AS THEY TRIED TO PERFORM.
AT LEAST ONE PERSON WAS
BLOODIED, BUT POLICE MADE NO
ARRESTS.
LATER, THE PERFORMANCE ARTISTS
DID MANAGE TO STAGE A
PERFORMANCE, AND INSISTED THEY
WON'T BE SILENCED.
>> IN THE COUNTRIES OF
EUROPE AND THE UNITED STATES
THERE'S NO REAL
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT IS
GOING ON HERE IN OUR
COUNTRY.
THERE'S NO SECURITY FOR
THOSE WHO EXPRESSED THE
CIVIL POLIT CALL POSITION.
THESE PEOPLE MIGHT BE BEATEN,
SOME ARE RAPED AT POLICE
STATIONS, KILLED OR PUT INTO
JAIL REGULARLY.
OUR GOAL IS TO TELL THE
TRUTH ABOUT THAT AS LOUD AS
WE CAN.
>> Ifill: AS FOR THE DAY'S
RESULTS, IF YOU PLAN TO WATCH
TODAY'S COMPETITION LATER, YOU
MIGHT WANT TO TUNE OUT FOR A
MOMENT.
AMERICAN SKIER TED LIGETY TOOK
THE MEN'S GIANT SLALOM.
THE FIRST AMERICAN MALE TO WIN
TWO OLYMPIC GOLDS IN ALPINE
SKIING.
AMERICAN TEAMS ALSO WON TWO
MEDALS, THE SILVER AND BRONZE,
IN WOMEN'S BOBSLEDDING.
AND IN MEN'S HOCKEY, THE U.S.
BEAT THE CZECH REPUBLIC TO
ADVANCE TO THE SEMIFINALS
FRIDAY, AGAINST CANADA.
RUSSIA WAS KNOCKED OUT OF MEDAL
CONTENTION WITH A LOSS TO
FINLAND.
A NEW WARNING HAS GONE OUT TO
AIRLINES, OVER POSSIBLE BOMBS IN
SHOES.
THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND
SECURITY ISSUED THE ALERT, BUT
DECLINED TODAY TO GIVE DETAILS
OF THE THREAT.
IT'S UNCLEAR IF THIS IS RELATED
TO EARLIER WARNINGS ABOUT
EXPLOSIVES HIDDEN IN TOOTHPASTE
OR LIQUIDS ON FLIGHTS TO RUSSIA.
THE KEYSTONE OIL PIPELINE HAS
RUN INTO NEW TROUBLE.
A STATE JUDGE IN NEBRASKA TODAY
REJECTED A LAW THAT LETS THE
GOVERNOR CONDEMN AND CLAIM LAND
FOR THE PIPELINE.
INSTEAD, A STATE AGENCY WILL
HAVE TO DECIDE ON A ROUTE.
THE PIPELINE STILL NEEDS FEDERAL
APPROVAL AS WELL.
IT'S MEANT TO CARRY OIL FROM
CANADA TO REFINERIES IN TEXAS.
THE FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS
COMMISSION WILL DRAW UP NEW
RULES FOR AN OPEN INTERNET.
A FEDERAL APPEALS COURT STRUCK
DOWN A PREVIOUS VERSION.
THE RULES WERE DESIGNED TO
ENSURE THAT BROADBAND PROVIDERS
DON'T DISCRIMINATE OR BLOCK
CONTENT ON THE WEB.
TODAY, THE F.C.C. OPTED TO TRY
AGAIN, INSTEAD OF APPEALING THE
COURT DECISION.
A MAJOR TECH ACQUISITION IS IN
THE WORKS.
FACEBOOK HAS ANNOUNCED IT WILL
BUY THE MOBILE MESSAGING SERVICE
"WHATS-APP" FOR UP TO $19
BILLION IN CASH AND STOCK.
AND ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE
DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST NEARLY 90 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 16,040.
THE NASDAQ FELL ALMOST 35 POINTS
TO CLOSE JUST BELOW 4,238.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
NEW AMMUNITIONN TH IE FIGHT OVER
BOOSTING THE MINIMUM WAGE;
POLITICAL TURMOIL IN VENEZUELA;
THE BACKLOG IN GETTING VISAS TO
AFGHANS ASSISTING U.S. FORCES;
HOW AN OIL BOOM IS AFFECTING THE
AIR OVER TEXAS; PLUS, WHATEVER
BECAME OF THE ARAB SPRING?
>> Woodruff: THE CONGRESSIONAL
BUDGET OFFICE, BY DEFINITION, IS
CONSIDERED A NON-PARTISAN
AGENCY.
BUT THE REPORT IT RELEASED
YESTERDAY ABOUT THE EFFECTS OF
RAISING THE MINIMUM WAGE WAS
SEIZED UPON BY BOTH SIDES OF THE
DEBATE.
AMONG ITS FINDINGS:
IF THE MINIMUM WAGE WERE RAISED
TO $10.10 AN HOUR, IT COULD
ELIMINATE HALF A MILLION JOBS.
BUT, IT WOULD ALSO LIFT 900,000
FAMILIES OUT OF POVERTY AND
RAISE INCOMES FOR MORE THAN 16
MILLION PEOPLE.
THE REPORT NOTED THERE COULD BE
SIGNIFICANT VARIATION IN THE
NUMBERS.
WE JOIN THE DEBATE WITH THEA
LEE, THE DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF
AT THE A.F.L.-C.I.O.
AND DAVID NEUMARK, AN ECONOMIST
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA,
IRVINE, WHO'S DONE EXTENSIVE
WORK ON THIS SUBJECT.
AND WE WELCOME YOU BOTH TO
THE PROGRAM.
THEA LEE, TO YOU FIRST, WHAT
IS YOUR MAIN TAKE AWAY HERE,
ON THE ONE HAND THE
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE
IS SAYING YES, IT LIFTS
PEOPLE OUT OF POVERTY IT
WILL RAISE INCOME BUT IT HAS
THE POTENTIAL TO ELIMINATE
HALF A MILLION JOBS.
>> THERE WERE SOME GOOD
FINDINGS OUT OF THE CBO
STUDY.
AS YOU SAID 16.5 MILLION
GETTING A PAY INCREASE WHICH
IS LONG OVERDUE.
AND ABOUT 900,000 COMING OUT
OF POVERTY.
THE MOST CONTROVERSIAL
FINDING THE CBO STUDY WAS UP
TO HALF A MILLION PEOPLE
COULD LOSE THEIR JOBS
BECAUSE OF HIKE IN THE MEN
MUM WAGE, IF YOU LOOK
CAREFULLY AT THE CBO STUDY
THEY HAVEN'T ACTUALLY DONE
NEW RESEARCH AND IT WAS
BIASED IN THE SENSE THAT
THEY GAVE A LOT MORE WEIGHT
TO STUDIES THAT MIGHT HAVE A
NEGATIVE EMPLOYMENT IMPACT.
AND LESS WEIGHT TO A VAST
CONSENSUS AMONG ECONOMISTS
RIGHT NOW THAT, IN FACT,
RAISING THE MEN MUM WAGE
WILL HAVE LITTLE OR NO
ADVERSE JOB IMPACT.
AND I THINK THOSE STUDIES
HAVE BEEN MORE OF THE NEWER
STUDIES, MORE CAREFUL
STUDIES THAT HAVE BEEN DONE
AND THAT IS WHERE A LOT OF
THE ECONOMICS PROFESSION IS
RIGHT NOW.
>> PROFESSOR NEUMARK, WHAT
IS YOUR TAKE AWAY ON WHAT
THE CBO SAID AND HOW DO YOU
RESPOND TO WHAT THEA LEE
SAID THAT THEY REALLY DIDN'T
TAKE INTO ACCOUNT CONSENSUS
OF ECONOMISTS.
SHE SAID THAT THERE WON'T BE
THIS AFFECT ON JOBS.
>> WELL, LET ME TAKE THE
FIRST QUESTION IN-- LET ME
TAKE THE QUESTION IN REVERSE
ORDER.
IT'S SIMPLY A MISSTATEMENT
OF THE RESEARCH EVIDENCE TO
SAY THAT MOST STUDIES POINT
TO NO EFFECTS OF MINIMUM
WAGES ON UNEMPLOYMENT TO.
SAY THERE IS A CONSENSUS
AMONG ECONOMISTS NOW, I
DON'T KNOW WHERE THAT COMES
FROM.
THERE IS, YOU KNOW, THERE IS
SURVEY, I DID AN EXTENSIVE
SURVEY OF MINIMUM WAGE
STUDIES BACK IN 2007 WITH
CO-AUTHOR WILLIAM WASHER AT
THE FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD.
WE FOUND THAT WHILE THERE IS
DEFINITELY A DISPUTE HERE
NEST OF THE EVIDENCE AND A
HIGHER PERCENTAGE OF THE
STUDIES WE THINK ARE BETTER,
POINT TO NEGLECT ANY-- NEGATIVE
MINIMUM WAGE EFFECTS THERE
ARE A FEW RECENT STUDIES
THAT FIND THE OPPOSITE THAT
IS NOT NEW THERE HAVE ALWAYS
BEEN A FEW THAT FIND IT THE
CONTRARY.
THERE HAS BEEN A
CONSERVATIVE EFFORT BY THE
AUTHORS OF THOSE STUDIES AND
PEOPLE IN FAVOR OF RAISING
THE MINIMUM WAGE TO MAKE IT
SEEM AS IF THAT'S WHAT WE
KNOW NOW AND THAT IS THE
CONSENSUS BUT THAT'S SIMPLY
NOT THE WEIGHT OF THE
EVIDENCE.
I REALLY WELCOME THE CBO
STUDY BECAUSE I THINK WHAT
IT DOES IS PUTS THE
DISCUSSION BACK WHERE IT
SHOULD BE.
THERE ARE COSTS TO RAISE THE
MINIMUM WAGE THERE ARE SOME
BENEFITS TO RAISE THE
MINIMUM WAGE.
WE SHOULD BE HAVING AN
INFORMED POLICY DISCUSSION
ABOUT WHAT THOSE COSTS AND
BENEFITS ARE AND HOW WE
TRADE THEM OFF AGAINST EACH
OTHER.
THE DISCUSSION ARGUING PASS
IF THERE IS NO COST, NO
EFFECTS ON THE MINIMUM WAGE,
OBVIOUSLY THERE IS NO KORX
IT'S ALL BENEFITS, YOU MIGHT
AS WELL KEEP DOING AND
HIGHER AND HIGHER.
I THINK THE CBO STUDY PUTS
US BACK WHERE WE NEED TO BE
SAYING THERE IS SOME JOB
LOSS.
AND LET'S THINK ABOUT THAT
COST RELATIVE TO THE BENEFITS.
>> Woodruff: THEA LEE WORKS
PITTING STUDIES AGAINST
STUDIES, HOW DO YOU RESPOND
TO THE POINT THAT THE
PROFESSOR JUST MADE THAT IT
IS IMPORTANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT YES, THERE MAY BE SOME
BENEFITS, BUT THERE ARE ALSO
SOME TRADE-OFFS.
>> WELL, EVEN IN THE CBO
STUDY, EVEN IF YOU TAKE THE
CBO STUDY AT FACE VALUE, IT
TALKS ABOUT A $31 BILLION
INCREASE IN INCOME FOR
LOW-WAGE WORKERS.
AND THESE ARE FOLKS WHO HAVE
BEEN WORKING HARD, PEOPLE
WHO ARE PLAYING BY THE RULES,
WHO ARE PRODUCTIVE WHO ARE
GOING TO WORK EVERY DAY AN
CAN'T LIFT THEIR FAMILIES
OUT OF POVERTY.
SO I THINK THIS STUDY GOES
TO SOMETHING VERY IMPORTANT.
THIS IS THE HOT TOPIC RIGHT
NOW.
THE MINIMUM WAGE, RAISING
THE MINIMUM WAGE IS
INCREDIBLY POPULAR.
IT WOULD BE GOOD FOR THE
ECONOMY.
AND IN FACT IT'S GOOD FOR A
LOT OF BUSINESSES.
AND WE'RE STARTING TO SEE
THAT EVEN BUSINESSES, THE
GAP JUST ANNOUNCED TODAY IT
IS GOING TO VOLUNTARILY
RAISE WAGES FOR ITS WORKERS.
HAVE FOUND THAT SOME SO OF
THE BENEFITS OF A HIGHER
MINIMUM WAGE THAT THERE IS
HIGHER PRODUCTIVITY.
THERE IS LOWER TURNOVER,
LOWER ADD SENTEEISM, WORKERS
ARE HEALTHIER, HAPPIER, THEY
STAY IN THE JOB LONGER.
THOSE ARE ALLOLOGICAL
IMPORTANT OFFSETTING IMPACTS
THAT NEED TO BE TAKEN INTO
ACCOUNT.
THAT'S WHY I THINK THE NEW
ECONOMIC RESEARCH WHICH
ISN'T ABOUT THEORIES, IT'S
NOT ABOUT DRAWING A SUPPLY
AND DEMAND KUFB ON A
BLACKBOARD, BUT IT IS ABOUT
LOOKING AT HISTORICAL, REAL
LIFE SITUATIONS WHERE YOU
HAVE TWO STATES OR TWO
COUNTIES THAT ARE NEXT DOOR
TO EACH OTHER.
ONE RAISES THE MINIMUM WAGE
AND ONE DOESN'T.
AND IN THOSE CAREFULLY
CONTROLLED STUDIES, DOW NOT
FIND THAT THERE IS A
NEGATIVE JOB IMPACT FROM
RAISING THE MINIMUM WAGE.
>> DAVID NEUMARK, YOU CAN
RESPOND TO THAT.
BUT EVEN SETTING THAT ASIDE,
WHAT ABOUT THE POSITIVE THAT
THE CBO FOUND, THAT POVERTY
WOULD BE REDUCED, THAT
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE WOULD END
UP WITH HIGHER INCOME.
THE POINT THAT MS. LEE JUST
MADE THAT PEOPLE WOULD HAVE
MORE DISPOSABLE INCOME.
>> RIGHT, SO VERY BRIEFLY,
THE STUDIES I WAS REFERRING
TO ARE NOT THEORY, THEY ARE
STUDIES OF
IMPERIAL-- EMPIRICAL
EVIDENCE.
SO WE CAN TALK ABOUT THE
RESEARCH AND WHAT IS GOOD
AND BAD BUT LET'S NOT
MISCHARACTERIZE THE RESEARCH
RECORD.
WHY ARE WE HAVING THIS
DEFWHAT FIRST PLACE.
WE'RE HAVING THIS DEBATE IN
THE FIRST PLACE BECAUSE
INEQUALITY HAS WIDENED A LOT
AND MANY PEOPLE FEEL AND I
RANK MYSELF AMONG THEM, THAT
IN A COUNTRY AS RICH AS OURS
THE MINIMALLY EXPANDED,
SHOULD PROBABLY BE HIGHER
THAN IT IS.
SO THAT'S THE GOAL.
HOW DO WE RAISE INCOMES OF
LOW INCOME FAMILIES.
THE QUESTION IS WHAT IS THE
BEST WAY TO DO IT.
THE MINIMUM WAGE IS
GENERALLY VIEWED AS NOT A
VERY GOOD WAY TO ACHIEVE
THAT GOAL FOR ONE SIMPLE
REASON.
MINIMUM WAGES DON'T TARGET
POOR AND LOW INCOME FAMILIES
VERY WELL.
MANY, MANY FAMILIES THAT ARE
PORE HAVE NO WORKERS, OKAY.
SO THE MINIMUM WAGE DOES
LITTLE OR NOTHING FOR THEM.
AN MANY MINIMUM WAGE WORKERS
ARE NONPOOR FAMILIES.
WE HAVE AN EARNED INCOME TAX
CREDIT.
PERHAPS IT SHOULD BE MORE
GENEROUS THAN IT IS.
THE EARNED INCOME TAX CREDIT
ESSENTIALLY ADDS ON TO YOUR
LABOR MARKET EARNINGS IF YOU
ARE IN A LOW INCOME FAMILY.
AND IT ADDS ON MORE IF YOU
HAVE CHILDREN TO GIVE THOSE
FAMILIES MORE HELP.
NOW SOME PEOPLE DON'T LIKE
THAT FOR REASONS WE DON'T
HAVE TIME TO GET INTO HERE.
BUT I DON'T THINK ANYONE
DISAGREES.
PEOPLE ON BOTH SIDES OF THE
DEBATE, THAT THAT IS A MUCH
BETTER AND MORE EFFECTIVE
AND EFFICIENT WAY TO PUT
MONEY IN THE HANDS OF LOW
INCOME FAMILIES.
SO WHEN THE CBO SAYS --
>> I WAS GOING TO SAY I
WANT-- WE ONLY HAVE A LITTLE
BIT OF TIME LEFT, THEA LEE,
WHAT ABOUT THIS, THE POINT
HE'S MAKING WHICH HAS BEEN
MADE ELSEWHERE, THAT THERE
ARE BETTER WAYS TO GET MONEY
INTO THE HANDS OF THOSE WHO
MOST NEED IT.
>> I DON'T THINK WE NEED TO
CHOOSE BETWEEN THE EARNED
INCOME TAX CREDIT WHICH IS A
GOOD PROGRAM AND RAISING THE
MINIMUM WAGE.
THE TRUTH IS THAT IF YOU ARE
WORKING FOR A LIVING YOU
SHOULD NOT BE IN POVERTY.
I THINK WHAT WE NEED TO DO
IS GIVE NOT JUST LOW-WAGE
WORKERS, POOR WORKERS BUT
MIDDLE INCOME WORKERS A
RAISE AS WELL.
BECAUSE THE KEY FACTOR IN
OUR ECONOMY TODAY IS THAT
MILLIONS AND MILLIONS OF
WORKERS HAVE BEEN WORKING
HARDER, THEY'RE MORE
PRODUCTIVE, EDUCATED THAN
THEY HAVE EVER BEEN AND THEY
HAVEN'T HAD A RAISE IN
DEKIDS.
I THINK RAISING THE MINIMUM
WAGE IS ONE IMPORTANT WAY OF
LIFTING UP THE FLOOR FOR ALL
OF THOSE WORKER.
AND I THINK IT SHOULD BE A
TOP PRIORITY FOR THE
CONGRESS AND THE COUNTRY.
>> PROFESSOR, JUST A BRIEF
RESPONSE.
>> WELL, I THINK THAT IS,
YOU KNOW, THAT'S A
SENTIMENT.
WE WISH LOW INCOME PEOPLE
WOULD EARN MORE.
BUT IT'S NOT AS SIMPLE AS
THAT.
IF WE COULD WAVE OUR WAND
AND THEY WOULD EARN HIGHER
WAGES I WOULD SAY THAT
SOUNDS LIKE A GREAT POLICY
THERE ARE TRADE-OFFS.
AND THIS STUDY PUT ITS US
BACK TO SERIOUSLY
CONSIDERING THOSE
TRADE-OFFS.
>> PROFESSOR DAVID NEUMARK,
WE THANK BOUGHth BODEBATE.
WE'LL CONTINUE TO LOOK AT IT
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: A MONTH OF PROTESTS
REACHED A BOILING POINT THIS
WEEK IN ECONOMICALLY STRAPPED
VENEZUELA.
AT THE CENTER OF THE UPROAR IS A
CHARISMATIC LEADER SEEKING TO
OUST THE CURRENT GOVERNMENT.
>> Ifill: DEMONSTRATORS BURNED
TRASH, CHANTED AND MADE NOISE
ANY WAY THEY COULD, OUTSIDE A
CARACAS COURT WHERE A TOP
OPPOSITION LEADER FACED CRIMINAL
CHARGES.
>> Ifill: LEOPOLDO LOPEZ IS
ACCUSED OF FOMENTING PROTEST
OVER A TUMULTUOUS THREE WEEKS IN
VENEZUELA.
THE HARVARD-TRAINED ECONOMIST
SURRENDERED TO POLICE YESTERDAY,
AFTER IMPLORING SUPPORTERS TO
KEEP UP THE PRESSURE ON
SOCIALIST PRESIDENT NICHOLAS
MADURO.
>> ( translated ): EVERY
VENEZUELAN WHO WANTS CHANGE,
GATHER OURSELVES, ORGANIZE
OURSELVES AND HOLD NON-VIOLENT
PROTESTS.
I SWEAR TO YOU WE WILL OVERCOME
AND VERY SOON WE WILL HAVE A
FREE AND DEMOCRATIC VENEZUELA.
>> Ifill: THE PROTESTERS HAVE
DENOUNCED MADURO'S STEWARDSHIP
OF THE OIL-RICH VENEZUELAN
ECONOMY.
ALSO AT ISSUE: RAMPANT CRIME,
CONTROLS ON MEDIA, AND FOOD
SHORTAGES.
FIVE PEOPLE HAVE DIED IN THE
LAST WEEK AS PROTESTS TURNED
VIOLENT, A TURN MANY BLAME ON
SO-CALLED COLECTIVOS, A
PARAMILITARY CITIZENS' MILITIA
ALLIED TO THE MADURO GOVERNMENT.
>> ( translated ): WE CANNOT
SUPPORT MADURO, HE'S A BAD MAN.
HE'S WORSE THAN CHAVEZ.
THERE ARE NO MEDICINES, THERE'S
NOTHING IN THIS COUNTRY.
FOR HOW LONG ARE WE GOING TO
CONTINUE TO SUFFER IN THIS
COUNTRY?
>> Ifill: MADURO, IN TURN, HAS
MINCED NO WORDS IN DENOUNCING
THE PROTESTS.
>> ( translated ): I HAVE BEEN
PERSONALLY OVERSEEING THE
OPERATIONS SO THAT I CAN
GUARANTEE PEACE IN THE FACE OF
THE FASCISTS GATHERING TODAY
WITH THEIR ARMED GANGS, WITH
THEIR TRAINED GROUPS, SO THAT
THERE WOULD BE PEACE.
>> Reporter: MADURO WAS ELECTED
LAST APRIL BY A RAZOR-THIN
MARGIN.
HE'D BEEN VICE-PRESIDENT FOR THE
LATE HUGO CHAVEZ, WHO FEUDED
WITH SUCCESSIVE AMERICAN
PRESIDENTS AND ACCUSED THE U.S.
OF ORCHESTRATING A 2002 COUP
MADURO HAS LEVELED THE SAME
CHARGETHIS TIME.
ON MONDAY, VENEZUELA'S FOREIGN
MINISTER ORDERED THREE AMERICAN
DIPLOMATS TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY.
IT'S BEEN FOUR YEARS SINCE THE
U.S. POSTED AN AMBASSADOR THERE.
THE ITE WHHOUSE REJECTED CLAIMS
THE U.S. IS PROMOTING UNREST.
>> Ifill: FOR NOW, A TENSE CALM
PREVAILS IN CARACAS, AS BOTH
SIDES WAIT FOR WHATEVER COMES
NEXT.
>> Ifill: FOR MORE ON WHAT MIGHT
COME NEXT, I'M JOINED BY CARL
MEACHAM, DIRECTOR OF THE
AMERICAS PROGRAM AT THE CENTER
FOR STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL
STUDIES.
>> COUNTERPROTESTS,
LEADERSHIP WOULD BE
LEADERSHIP WHAT IS REALLY
BEHIND ALL OF THIS RIGHT
NOW.
>> IT'S BEEN TEN YEARS OF
MISMANAGEMENT WITH THE
ECONOMY.
IT'S BEEN TEN YEARS OF
PUTTING OPINIONS OF
OPPOSITION LEADER TO THE
SIDE, DOING AWAY WITH
DISSENT.
IT'S BEEN TEN YEARS OF A
POOR ECONOMY.
AND YOU SEE THIS ALL NOW
COMING AND SFO BALLING TO
THESE EVENTS THAT WE'VE SEEN.
LET'S REMEMBER THIS HAS BEEN
PROBABLY, IT'S BEEN A YEAR
SINCE MR. MADURO WAS ELECTED.
SOME PEOPLE SAY THAT HE
WONNING SOME SAY HE HAD
DI W TO OFFICE.
AND HE IS NO HUGO CHAVEZ IN
HIS ABILITY TO GET FOLKS
THERE HIS COALITION AND
PEOPLE IN THE MIDDLE TO
FOLLOW HIS POLICIES SO RIGHT
NOW WHAT YOU HAVE IS THIS
SNOWBALLING AFFECT OF A POOR
ECONOMY, CRIMINALITY AND
PEOPLE ARE JUST SORT OF
SCARED.
>> VENEZUELA IS THIS OIL
RICH NATION, HOW DID IT GET
TO THE POINT WHERE IT IS AT
56% INFLATION?
>> WELL, AGAIN, IT'S THE USE
OF A LOT OF THE MONEY THAT
THEY'VE HAD FOR YEARS AND
YEARS FOR ACTIVITIES THAT
HAVE TO DO WITH AN IDEOLOGY
AND MOVEMENT, THE BOLIVAIAN
MOVEMENT THAT PROMOTINGS A
CERTAIN KIND OF GOVERNMENT,
WELFARE STATE THAT'S VERY,
VERY LARGE.
ON THE OTHER HAND THEY'RE
TRYING TO EXPORT THIS
REVOLUTION AROUND THE WORLD
IN PLACES LIKE CENTRAL
AMERICA, IN PLACES LIKE THE
CARIBBEAN, SO SOME OF THESE
FUNDS THAT SHOULD HAVE BEEN
USED TO IMPROVE
INFRASTRUCTURE, EDUCATION IN
VENEZUELA HAVE BEEN SPREAD
SO THIN, AND TO HELP KOUBA
WHICH IS ANOTHER ISSUE, HAVE
BEEN SPREAD SO THIN BUT THEY
ARE NOT ABLE TO DOT JOBS
THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO DO IN
THE COUNTRY.
>> HOW DID LEE BOLDO LOPEZ
BECOME THE FACE FOR THIS.
>> IT'S AN INTERESTING
SITUATION.
HE'S BEEN PART OF THE SWAG
FOR SOME TIME.
IT IS HIM.
IT IS MARIA.
>>> .
>> THE ONE WHO ALMOST BEAT
MADURO.
>> CORRECT.
HE DID SOME SOMETHING.
HE BACKED UP HIS WORDS WITH
ACTION.
WHAT YOU SAY YESTERDAY AND
IT IS EMOTIONAL FOR
VENEZUELA.
THEY ACTUALLY MADE THE
SACRIFICE-- SACRIFICE, HE
TURNED HIMSELF IN EVEN
THOUGH THEY ARE TRUMPED UP
CHARGES, HE TURNED HIMSELF
IN.
THIS SIGNALS A NEW PHASE IN
THIS WHOLE DISCUSSION.
>> Ifill: DOES THE NEW PHASE
TAKE US TOWARD OR AWAY FROM
THE POTENTIAL OF A COUP.
>> THE NEW PHASE IS A
BUILDING BLOCK FOR
SUBSTANTIVE CHANGE.
I DON'T THINK THERE'S A COUP
IN THE CARDS RIGHT NOW.
I THINK THAT IF ANYTHING
THIS REALLY DEMONSTRATES
WHAT AN OPPOSITION COULD DO
AS THEY STUCK BY THEIR WORD.
AND YOU SAW HIM YESTERDAY
TURN HIMSELF IN.
THE ISSUES THAT ARE STILL
OUTSTANDING ARE PRETTY BIG.
WHAT IS THE MILITARY GOING
TO DO.
IT'S UNLICKLY THAT THE
MILITARY IS GOING TO TURN
ITS WEAPONS, ITS ARMS ON THE
PEOPLE.
IT'S MORE LIKELY THAT THEY
WOULD HAVE ISSUES WITH A
LEADERSHIP THAT ASKS THEM TO
DO THAT, TO TAKE UP ARMS
AGAINST VENEZUELA ARNES,
THOSE ARE QUESTIONS THAT
STILL ARE NOT ANSWERED YET.
>> WHERE DOES MADURO STAND
IN THIS, IS HE POPULAR.
IT DIDN'T LOOK THAT WAY FROM
THE PEOPLE THEY SAW SPEAKING
IN THE STREETS.
DOES HE HAVE ANY
RELATIONSHIP AT ALL WITH
LOPEZ?
>> NOT WITH LOPEZ.
HE WAS WORK ON THE FUMES OR
THE TAILWINDS THAT
MR. CHAVEZ HAD LEFT HIM.
RIGHT NOW HE DOESN'T HAVE
THAT ANY MORE.
AND WE'RE LEFT TO RATE HIM
ON HIS DEEDS WHICH IN THESE
LAST TEN MONTHS TO A YEAR
HAVE BEEN FEW.
>> YOU MENTIONED CUBA BUT IS
THERE A ROLE IN REACHING A
RESOLUTION HERE FOR ANY OF
THE OTHER NEIGHBORING
NATIONS AROUND VENEZUELA TO
STEP UP, TO RUN INTERFERENCE
FOR THIS AND TRY TO FIND
SOME MIDDLE GROUND.
>> IT HAS BEEN SURPRISING
THAT MORE COUNTRIES IN THE
REGION HAVEN'T STEPPED UP TO
CALL OUT INJUSTICES THAT
HAVE GONE ON.
THERE HAVE BEEN TIMID
STATEMENTS FROM THE OTHER
COUNTRIES IN THE REGION AND
THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN
STATES WITH REGARDS TO THIS
ISSUE.
>> WHY IS THAT.
>> THEY HAVEN'T CALLED, WELL,
YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT REALLY
POPULAR TO GO AFTER OR TO
CALL OUT A LEADER IN THE
REGIONMENT BUT SOME OF THESE
ACTIONS THAT ARE HAPPENING
ARE SO EGREGIOUS THAT YOU
WONDER WHY OTHER COUNTRY,
TALKING ABOUT LATIN AMERICA,
TALKING ABOUT THE PLACE IN
THE WORLD THAT TALKS ABOUT
DEMOCRACY, THAT TALKS ABOUT
REPRESENTING MINORITY, MEAN
OR THE VIEWPOINTS.
AND THESE FOLKS AREN'T SORT
OF COMING TOGETHER AND
SPEAKING OUT ABOUT WHAT IS
HAPPENING IN VENEZUELA.
>> AND THIS IS SOMETHING THE
U.S. KEEPS ITS DISTANCE
FROM.
>> YES, BECAUSE IT'S AFRAID
THAT THEY'RE GOING TO USE
THE UNITED STATES AS A
TARGET TO SAY HEY, THE
UNITED STATES IS ORCHESTRATING
THIS WHEN IT'S NOT CLEARLY.
>> THAT'S REALLY ONE OF THE
ISSUES.
SO THE UNITED STATES I THINK
IS IN A UNIQUEITUA STION NOW
WHERE IT CAN SORT OF CHANNEL
A LOT OF WHAT'S GOING ON.
AND HOPEFULLY IT DOES.
>> CARL MEACHAM, THE
DIRECTOR OF THE MERCK'S
PROGRAM AT THE CENTRE FOR
STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL
STUDIES, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AS THE U.S.
MILITARY PREPARES TO WITHDRAW
FROM AFGHANISTAN, THE LIVES OF
THOUSANDS OF AFGHAN CITIZENS WHO
WORK FOR THE AMERICANS ARE BEING
THREATENED BY INSURGENTS.
BUT GETTING OUT OF THE COUNTRY
TO SAFETY IN THE STATES HAS BEEN
A LONG AND DIFFICULT PROCESS.
THE NEWSHOUR'S P.J. TOBIA HAS
OUR STORY.
>> Reporter: FOR SEVEN YEARS
HE HAS WORKED DANGEROUS
MISSIONS FOR THE U.S.
MILITARY IN AFGHANISTAN.
>> WHEN I GET HIRED I
WORKING WITH THE ADP POLICE,
MENTORS IT, WHICH --
>> HIS WORK AS A TRANSLATOR
BROUGHT THREATS, BY THE SAME
TALIBAN INSURGENTS HE HELPS
U.S. FORCES HUNT DOWN.
>> I FEEL DANGER.
EVERY DAY, EVERY HOUR.
MAYBE ONE DAY OR ONE HOUR OR-- 1
WEEK THEY ARE GOING TO KILL
ME.
>> HE APPLIED FOR A SPECIAL
IMMIGRATION NEARLY TWO YEARS
AGO PAYING FOR DOCUMENTS AND
MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS
HIMSELF.
>> 18 MONTHS THAT I'M
WAITING FOR MY VISA I HAVE-- I
HAVE TO SPEND A LOT OF MONEY,
LIKE I SPENT $2,000 BECAUSE
OF MY DAUGHTER, AND MY WIFE.
>> THE VISA WOULD ALLOW HIM
AND HIS FAMILY TO MOVE TO
THE U.S.
IF ONLY IT WOULD COME.
>> IN 202009 THEY PASSED THE
CONGRESS EP, IT
INCREASED THE NUMBER OF
VISAS SO AFGHANS LIKE HIM
COULD COME TO THE UNITED
STATES BUT THERE'S A
PROBLEM.
CONGRESS EXPECTED THE STATE
DEPARTMENT WHICH OVERCEASE
THE PROGRAM TO APPROVE MANY
MORE VISAS IN MUCH LESS
TIME.
>> SENATOR BEN CARDEN HELPED
WRITE THE LAW.
>> THEY WERE THERE AS PART
OF OUR WAR EFFORT.
AND NOW THEY'RE AT GREAT
RISK.
WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY FOR
THEM TO FIND A SAFE PLACE
FOR THEM TO LIVE.
IF THEY WANT TO LIVE IN THE
UNITED STATES, THEY SHOULD
BE ABLE TO LIVE HERE.
>> ONLY AROUND
23,000-- 2,000 OF THE U.S.'S
AFGHAN EMPLOYEES HAVE
RECEIVED SPECIAL VISAS SINCE
2007, THE YEAR THE PRECURSOR
TO THE CURRENT PROGRAM
DWARNTION THAT IS LESS THAN
25% OF THE VISAS AVAILABLE
BY LAW.
THOUGH CONGRESS ALLOWED FOR
1500 VISAS ANNUALLY, THE
STATE DEPARTMENT HAS NEVER
COME CLOSE TO ISSUING THAT
MANY.
>> JARRETT IS A DEPUTY
SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR
AFGHANISTAN AND PAKISTAN AT
THE STATE DEPARTMENT.
HE BLAMES SOME OF THE DELAYS
ON THE APPLICANTS
THEMSELVES.
>> HOW BIG IS THE ENTIRE
BACKLOG.
>> IT NOT A BACKLOG, THERE
IS A PIPELINE, THE PIPELINE
HAS ABOUT 8,000 PEOPLE IN IT.
A LOT OF THOSE PEOPLE ARE
ACTUALLY MAYBE NOT QUITE
HALF THEM ARE CONTROLLED
THEIR OWN TIMING,
ESSENTIALLY SOME THEY'VE
STARTED THE APPLICATION OR
PERHAPS THEY'VE GOTTEN
THROUGH THE FIRST STEP BUT
THEY NEED TO FINISH THEIR
OWN PAPERWORK BEFORE WE CAN
TAKE THE NEXT STEP WITH
THEM.
SO THAT'S NOT EXACTLY A
BACKLOG IT IS AFGHANS WHO
HAVE STARTED THE PROCESS AND
AT A CERTAIN POINT HAVE
EITHER SLOWED DOWN OR
DECIDED NOT CONTINUE.
>> DESPITE THE LONG WAIT FOR
MOST OF THE 8,000 AFGHANS A
PYING FOR VISAS, SOME DO
MAKE IT TO THE U.S.
ONE LANDED IN CHAR LOTSVILLE,
VIRGINIA WITH HIS WIFE AND
18 MONTH OLD DAUGHTER.
HE SPENT SEVEN YEARS AS A
TRANSLATOR FOR THE U.S.
MILITARY IN NORTHERN
AFGHANISTAN.
>> THE DAY THAT I FOUND A
MESSAGE FROM U.S. EMBASSY
THAT MY VISA IS PREPARED AND
COME TO PICK IT UP, I AM
VERY HAPPY.
AND WE KNOW THAT WE ARE
GOING TO HAVE A NEW LIFE AND
WE GOING TO HAVE-- WE GOING
TO BE SAFE.
>> HIS APPLICATION PROCESS
TOOK FOUR YEARS.
>> I USED TO SEND THEM
LETTERS, E-MAILS, I NEVER
KNOW WHAT THE SITUATION IS.
BUT THE RESPONSE WAS ALWAYS
THE SAME.
JUST WAIT.
>> WAS IT FRUSTRATING.
>> OF COURSE, IF YOUR LIFE
IS IN DANGER, YOU DON'T KNOW
IF YOU ARE GOING TO GET
KILLED BY SOMEBODY, OF
COURSE THAT IS FRUSTRATING.
>> IT HAS BEEN A DISASTROUS
PROGRAM.
>> KIRK JOHNSON WORKED FOR
THE U.S. AGENCY FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT IN
FALLUJAH, IRAQ.
WHEN HIS IRAQI COLLEAGUES
STARTED GETTING ASASS
NATURED HE STARTED AN
ORGANIZATION TO HELP THEM
PLEA TO THE U.S.
>> THESE ARE THE GOOD GUYS.
AND THEY'RE BEING HUNTED BY
THE BAD GUYS AND WE NEED TO
PROTECT THE GOOD GUYS.
SO FIVE YEARS AGO, SIX YEARS
AGO WE HAD THIS DEBATE AS A
NATION AND WE SAID YES,
WE'RE GOING TO OPEN OUR
DOORS TO YOU.
AND ALL OF US HAVE TURNED
OUR BACKS ON THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THAT
PROCESS.
>> WHY HAD SUCH A LOW
NUMBER.
EVEN WITH THE TREMENDOUS
NUMBER OF VISAS YOU HAVE
GIVEN OUT AT THE END OF TO
13, IT'S STILL NOT A BIG
CHUNK OF THE TOTAL VISAS
THAT CONGRESSIONAL KATED.
WAS'S THE HOLDUP?
>> WELL, THIS IS A
COMPLICATED PROGRAM TO SET
UP.
FOR ONE THING IT MEANS
SETTING UP ACTUALLY HAVING
IMMIGRANT VISAS ISSUED IT IN
AFGHANISTAN WHICH WE DIDN'T
DO AT ALL UNTIL 2011.
AND IT'S ALSO A COMPLICATED
SET OF FACTORS THAT WE HAVE
TO BALANCE IN EACH OF THE
INDIVIDUAL APPLICANT'S
CASES.
AND SO THE IMPORTANT THING
OUR LESSONS OVER TIME.
WE'VE BEEN REMIND-- REFINING
AND IMPROVING THE SYSTEM AND
AT THIS POINT I THINK THE
SYSTEM IS WORKING WELL.
>> THERE ARE STILL MEN AND
WOMEN WHO HAVE BEEN WAITING
A LONG TIME AFTER
GIVING-- THEY SAY THEIR
LIVES ARE THREATENED EVERY
MINUTE, EVERY DAY, THEIR
FAMILY'S LIVES ARE
THREATENED.
IF ONE OF THOSE MEN OR WOMEN
WERE THREATENED WHAT WOULD
YOU SAY TO HIM OR HER.
>> OBVIOUSLY WHICH SAY THANK
YOU.
BECAUSE EVERY ONE OF US WHO
IS INVOLVED IN THIS PROCESS
CARES VERY INTENSELY ABOUT
MAKING SURE THAT THE AFGHANS
THE EYE RANGIES WHO WE
WORKED W THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
NOW FACING A THREAT, GET THE
VISAS THAT THEY DESERVE.
WE UNDERSTAND OUR MORAL AND
LEGAL OBLIGATION TO OUR
CHRETION AND FORMER
COLLEAGUES.
>> HE ADMITS THAT THERE WERE
PROBLEMS WITH THE PROGRAM.
BUT SAYS THAT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT HAS ADDED STAFF
TO CLEAR BOTTLENECKS IN THE
PROCESS.
>> WE HAVE REALLY IMPROVED
THE SYSTEM OVER THE COURSE
OF THE LAST YEAR.
SO I BELIEVE THAT WE ARE
GOING TO SEE FEWER AND FEWER
OF THESE CASES OF PEOPLE WHO
HAVE TO WAIT A VERY LONG
TIME TO GET AN ANSWER TO
THEIR APPLICATION.
>> THE OTHER THING WHICH SAY,
AND I SAY THIS TO OUR AFGHAN
COLLEAGUES AND TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE, IS THAT WE
ALSO HAVE OBLIGATION, REAL
OBLIGATIONS, MORAL
OBLIGATIONS TO DO A THOROUGH
REVIEW OF EACH OF THESE
APPLICATIONS AND MAKE SURE
THAT THERE IS NO THREAT
POSED TO THE UNITED STATES
BY ONE OF THE APPLICANTS.
>> IN THE LAST FOUR MONTHS
OF 2013, THE STATE
DEPARTMENT ISSUED NEARLY 500
SPECIAL IMMIGRANT VISAS TO
AFGHAN EMPLOYEES.
THAT'S NEARLY AS MANY VISAS
AS WERE ISSUED IN THE LAST
FOUR YEARS COMBINED.
>> SUPPORTERS OF VISA
APPLICANTS AREN'T IMPRESSED.
>> THINGS ARE GETTING
NOISIER IN WASHINGTON AND
WONDERS BE, WHEN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT AND HOMELAND
SECURITY START GETTING
EMBARRASSED IN THE MEDIA,
THEY START GIVING OUT VISAS
MORE QUICKLY.
IT'S KIND OF CRAZY HOW IT
WORKS BUT IF THAT MEDIA
ATTENTION, IF AN WHEN IT
DIES OUT WHICH IT SURELY
WILL BECAUSE THERE ARE OTHER
CRISES AND OTHER PROBLEMS IN
THE WORLD, THOSE NUMBERS
WILL DROP BACK DOWN AGAIN.
>> IT IS ACTUALLY NOT THE
CASE THAT THE HUE AND CRY AS
YOU CALLED IT LED TO
FUNDAMENTAL CHANGES IN THE
SYSTEM WHAT IS THE CASE IS
THAT WE'VE LEARNED A LOT OF
LESSONS.
WE START ADD PLYING THOSE
LESSONS VERY WELL ABOUT
MARCH OF LAST YEAR.
AND YOU'RE SEEING THAT NOW
IN THE END NUMBERS OF ISSUED
VISAS.
>> JOHNSON AN OTHER AS
CAUSED THE STATE DEPARTMENT
OF REJECTING MORE AND MORE
VISA APPLICANTS NOT BECAUSE
THEY DON'T QUALIFY FOR THE
PROGRAM BUT AS A MEANS TO
CLEAR THE CONSIDERABLE
BACKLOG.
>> IT'S A CHARGE THAT
JARRETT DENIES.
>> IT'S ABSOLUTELY NOT TRUE
THAT WE USE REJECTIONS AS A
WAY TO CLEAR THE BACKLOG IT
IS CERTAINLY TRUE THAT SOME
PEOPLE WHO APPLY FOR THE
SPECIAL IMMIGRANT VISA
PROGRAM ARE NOT ELIGIBLE FOR
IT.
SO FXA
THE LAST YEAR OR SO THAT
ABOUT 20% OF APPLICANTS
EITHER AREN'T OR
DON'T-- WEREN'T ORIGINALLY
ABLE TO PRESENT
DOCUMENTATION TO PROVE THAT
THEY WORKED FOR THE UNITED
STATES GOVERNMENT FOR A YEAR,
OR THAT THEY WEREN'T FIRED
FOR CAUSE WHICH WOULD
INDICATE THAT THEY DIDN'T
PROVIDE RVICSEE WHICH IS
ANOTHER PART OF THE LAW.
>> FOR HE AND HIS FAMILY,
PATIENCE PAID OFF.
>> MY DAUGHTER, I WANT HER
IN THE FUTURE TO CONTINUE ON
EDUCATION IN THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA.
I'M VERY HAPPY SHE IS NOT IN
THE WAR IN AFGHANISTAN AND
WE WERE ABLE TO GET HER HERE
IN THE UNITED STATES.
>> MEANWHILE,-- HEOTHAT THE WAIK
HIM.
>> OUR ONLY HOPE IS A U.S.
VISA BECAUSE WE WILL GET
KILLED ONE DAY BECAUSE OF
WORKING WITH THE U.S. ARMY.
>> ON-LINE YOU CAN SEE A
VISUAL BREAKDOWN OF THE NUMBER
OF VISAS GRANTED, COMPARED TO
THE NUMBER OF SLOTS THE U.S. HAD
AVAILABLE OVER THE LAST SEVEN
YEARS.
PLUS, MEET MORE AFGHANS WHO ARE
IN DANGER AND CAN'T GET VISAS,
THAT'S ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
>> Woodruff: NOW, AS SHALE
NATURAL GAS FRACKING BOOMS IN
TEXAS, THERE ARE NEW QUESTIONS
ABOUT ITS POSSIBLE CONNECTION
WITH AIR QUALITY AND HEALTH
PROBLEMS.
THAT'S THE FOCUS OF A NEW REPORT
JOINTLY DONE BY THE CENTER FOR
PUBLIC INTEGRITY, INSIDE CLIMATE
NEWS, AND THE WEATHER CHANNEL.
IT SPECIFICALLY LOOKED AT
DRILLING IN A HUGE AREA KNOWN AS
THE EAGLE FORD SHALE PLAY, WHERE
AS YOU CAN SEE, THE OIL WELLS
ARE IN GREEN DOTS, GAS WELLS IN
RED.
IT EXAMINED ALMOST 300 HEALTH
COMPLAINTS IN THE REGION
POTENTIALLY LINKED TO FRACKING.
THE INDUSTRY IS DISPUTING THE
REPORT.
JIM MORRIS IS ONE OF THE
JOURNALISTS WHO WORKED ON IT FOR
THE CENTER OF PUBLIC INGEGRITY.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
>> THANK YOU.
>> A LITTLE BIT OF
BACKGROUND.
HOW MUCH DRILLING OF THIS
KIND IS GOING ON IN THIS
SOUTH TEXAS AREA AND WHY DID
YOU DECIDE TO LOOK AT THE
AIR QUALITY ISSUE.
>> THERE ARE ABOUT 8,000
WELLS THAT HAVE ALREADY BEEN
DRILLED IN THE EAGLEFORD
SHALE WHICH 20,000 SQUARE
MILES, ANOTHER 5,000 OR SO
HAVE BEEN PERMITTED ORION
LINE.
WE CHOSE TO LOOK AT THE
EAGLE FORD SPECIFICALLY
BECAUSE IT HAS NOT BEEN PART
OF THE NATIONAL CONVERSATION
ON FRACKING.
AND WE LOOKED AT AIR BECAUSE
SO MUCH FOCUS HAS BEEN PUT
UNDERSTANDABLY ON
CONTAMINATED WATER THAT WE
FELT IT WAS TIME TO LOOK AT
AIR POLLUTION.
>> Woodruff: WHAT WERE YOUR
MAIN FINDINGS.
>> THE MAIN FINDINGS WERE
THAT THERE ARE ALL MANNER OF
TOXIC CHEMICALS ASSOCIATED
WITH OIL & GAS PRODUCTION
THAT APPEAR TO BE MAKING
PEOPLE SICK.
BENZENE WHICH CAN CAUSE
CANCER, SULFUR DIOXIDE WHICH
CAUSES SEVERE LUNG PROBLEMS,
HYDROGEN SULFIDE WHICH CAN
CAUSE A VARIETY OF CHRONIC
CONDITIONS AND ALSO IT CAN
BE LETHAL IN HIGH ENOUGH
DOSES.
ALL THIS COMES OUT DURING
DRILLING, PROCESSING, EVEN
COMES OUT OF PIPELINES.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU-- IT IS
EMITTEDDED AND YOU SAY IT
CAN CAUSE PROBLEMS S IT
CAUSING PROBLEMS.
>> WELL, WE LOOKED AT, FIRST
OF ALL, NOT ENOUGH STUDY HAS
BEEN DONE AND NOT ENOUGH
MONITORING HAS BEEN DONE, I
CAN COMPANY BACK TOMENT THAT
BUT WE LOOKED AT NEARLY 300
COMPLAINTS FILED BY
RESIDENTS OF THE EAGLE FORD
SHALE WITH THE STATE OF
TEXAS.
AND THE VAST MAJORITY OF
THOSE HAD TO DO WITH HEALTH
PROBLEMS THAT APPEAR TO BE
RELATED TO AIR EMISSION,
NAUSEA, CHRONIC HEADACHES,
NOSEBLEEDS, SEVERE ASTHMA
ATTACKS.
THOSE SYMPTOMS ARE
CONSISTENT WITH SYMPTOMS
WE'VE SEEN FROM OTHER SHALE
DRILLING AREAS, SOMEWHAT
OLDER PLAYS AS IN
PENNSYLVANIA, FOR EXAMPLE,.
>> Woodruff: SO IS THERE A
PROVEN CONNECTION BETWEEN
THE CHEMICALS THAT YOU ARE
DESCRIBING AND WHAT TEASE
PEOPLE ARE COMPLAINING
ABOUT?
>> WELL, YEAH, THE SCIENCE
CERTAINLY SHOWS THAT A
NUMBER OF THESE CHEMICALS
CAUSE THE SORTS OF
CONDITIONS THESE PEOPLE ARE
COMPLAINING ABOUT.
IF YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BENZENE
AND LIEU KEEP YA, OBVIOUSLY
THAT'S NOT SOMETHING WILL
YOU SEE FOR MANY, MANY
YEARS.
AND AGAIN NOT ENOUGH STUDY
HAS BEEN DONE AND NOT ENOUGH
MONITORING OF THE AIR IS
BEING DONE BY THE STATE OF
TEXAS.
>> LET MOW JUST READ TO YOU
WHAT THE INDUSTRY IS SAYING
BACK AS WE REPORTED A MOMENT
AGO.
THEY'RE REJECTING THIS.
THIS IS FROM THE INDEPENDENT
PETROLEUM ASSOCIATION OF
AMERICA.
THEY SAY IN PART, QUOTE,
AFTER 8 MONTHS OF RESEARCH,
THE BEST THIS TEAM COULD
COME UP WITH WAS A REHASH OF
WHAT SOME ANTI-FRACKING
ACTIVISTS CLAIMED LAST YEAR.
AND A COUPLE OF OLD
REGULATORY MEMOS WHICH THEY
COMPLETELY MISREAD.
NOW THAT'S JUST PART OF WHAT
THEY SAY.
>> UH-HUH.
THE INDUSTRY WASN'T VERY
HAPPY THAT WE WERE DOWN
THERE.
AND IN FACT THE INDUSTRY,
NEITHER THE INDUSTRY NOR THE
REGULATORY AGENCY IN TEXAS
WHICH IS THE TEXAS
COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL
QUALITY WOULD SIT DOWN WITH
US.
IN AUSTIN OR TALK TO US IN
THE FIELD WHEN WE WERE DOWN
IN THE EAGLE FORD.
WE MADE EIGHT TRIPS DOWN
THERE.
SO I WOULD DISPUTE HIS
CHARACTERIZATION.
AND I WOULD SAY THAT WE
LOOKED AT PERMITS, VERY
COMPLEX STACKS OF PAPER ON
AIR PERMITS, FOR EXAMPLE.
DID THE NUMBERS, RAN ALL
THIS BY EXPERTS, BY
SCIENTIFIC EXPERTS, BY SOME
OF THE STATE'S OWN
PERMITTING ENGINEERS.
SO TO SAY THIS IS SOME SORT
OF A REHASH OF ANTI-FRACKING
PROPAGANDA IS JUST SILLY.
>> WOULD THEY GO ON TO SAY,
THEY SAY WHAT THE REPORT
LARGELY IGNORED IS THAT TENS
OF THOUSANDS OF FAMILIES IN
THE EAGLEFORD IS IN THEIR
WORDS LIVING BETTER LIVES
BECAUSE OF OIL & GAS
DEVELOPMENT.
>> YOU KNOW, I DON'T KNOW
THAT THEY COULD NECESSARILY
BACK THAT UP.
I MEAN WE DID REPORT, FOR
EXAMPLE, THAT THE TAX BASE
IN CONCERNS COUNTY TEXAS
WHICH IS THE SORT OF FOCAL
POINT OF OUR REPORTING
INCREASED.
WE QUOTED THE COUNTY JUDGE
WHO SAID THIS IS THE
GREATEST THINGS THAT'S EVER
HAPPENED TO HER COUNTY IS SO
WE CERTAINLY ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT THERE ARE ECONOMIC
BENEFITS.
BUT OUR FOCUS WAS THE
ENVIRONMENT AND SPECIFICALLY
AIR POLLUTION.
>> JUST QUICKLY, FINALLY THE
OTHER THING THEY SAY IS THAT
THE STATE REGULATORS ARE NOW
IN THE PROCESS OF CHANGING
THE RULES TO DEAL WITH
HEALTH CONCERNS.
AND THEY'RE SAYING THAT THEY
HAVE ALREADY RESPONDED TO
COMPLAINTS, THAT THE
INDUSTRY IS RESPONDING.
>> WELL, LET ME-- I DON'T
KNOW HOW THE INDUSTRY HAS
RESPONDED.
LET ME TELL YOU BRIEFLY HOW
THE STATE HAS RESPONDED.
OF THE 300 COMPLAINTS THEY
FOUND 164 VIOLATIONS, ONLY
TWO TWO FINES WERE LEVIED
FOR THOSE 164 VIOLATIONS.
>> WHERE DO YOU GO FROM HERE
WITH IT?
>> WE'RE GOING TO BE
FOLLOWING IT UP
AGGRESSIVELY.
>> ALL RIGHT, JIM MORRIS
WITH THE CENTER FOR PUBLIC
INTEGRITY, WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, SINCE
2011, THE MIDDLE EAST HAS SEEN
SEASONS OF DISCONTENT, PROMISE
AND RENEWED UPHEAVAL.
THE ARAB SPRING BLOOMED IN SOME
PLACES AND FADED IN OTHERS.
JEFFREY BROWN LOOKS AT THE MIXED
PRODUCT OF THESE LAST YEARS.
>> Brown: IT WAS JUST OVER THREE
YEARS AGO THAT DEMONSTRATIONS
ENGULFED TUNISIA, INSPIRED BY A
STREET VENDOR WHO SET HIMSELF
ABLAZE TO PROTEST CORRUPTION AND
INTIMIDATION.
IN THE PROCESS, HE IGNITED A
VOLURETION ACROSS THE REGION.
BUT THE UPRISINGS AND PROTESTS
FROM MOROCCO TO OMAN, WHAT CAME
TO BE KNOWN AS THE ARAB SPRI,NG
HAVE YIELDED DECIDEDLY MIXED
RESULTS.
THE BEST MAY BE IN TUNISIA
ITSELF, WHERE SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY VISITED YESTERDAY,
PRAISING THE NATION'S PROGRESS.
>> I WANT TO CONGRATULATE PRIME
MINISTER JOMAA AND THE TUNISIAN
PEOPLE ON THE VERY DIFFICULT
ROAD THEY HAVE NAVIGATED AND THE
SUCCESSFUL WAY IN WHICH THEY
HAVE MOVED THROUGH A VERY
DIFFICULT TRANSITION TO
DEMOCRATIC RULE.
>> Brown: THE TRSITIANON BEGAN
WHEN THE OUSTER OF PRESIDENT
ZINE EL-ABIDINE BEN ALI GAVE WAY
TO MORE UNREST AS ISLAMISTS AND
SECULAR GROUPS COMPETED FOR
INFLUENCE.
THE ECONOMY WORSENED,
ASSASSINATIONS OF TWO POWERFULLD
TRUST BETWEEN PARTIES.
AND ATTACKS BY AN AL-QAEDA-
LINKED FACTION STOKED FEARS OF A
TAKEOVER BY RADICAL ISLAMISTS.
DESPITE IT ALL, LAST MONTH THE
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY APPROVED A NEW
CONSTITUTION NOW BEING HAILED AS
ONE OF THE ARAB WORLD'S MOST
PROGRESSIVE.
>> ( translated ): OUR PEOPLE
SUCCEEDED IN MAKING A PEACEFUL
REVOLUTION THAT ENLIGHTENED THE
WORLD.
WE SUCCEEDED TO AVOID A CIVIL
WAR BETWEEN US.
BUT WE ACHIEVED CONSENSUS.
>> Brown: THERE'S BEEN NO SUCH
CONSENSUS IN LIBYA, TUNISIA'S
NEIGHBOR TO THE EAST.
TWO WELL-ARMED MILITIAS HAVE
DEMANDED THE INTERIM PARLIAMENT
RESIGN.
TODAY, THEY EXTENDED THEIR
DEADLINE TO FRIDAY.
THE PRIME MINISTER DISMISSED THE
ULTIMATUM.
>> ( translated ): FROM THE TIME
THAT THE ARMED GROUPS ISSUED
THIS DECLARATION, I HAVE FOUND
IN MOST OF THE PEOPLE THE WILL
OF UNDERSTANDING, ENTHUSIASM AND
PREPAREDNESS TO DEFUSE THIS
CRISIS AND TO CONTAIN THIS
MATTER.
>> Brown: JUST THIS MONDAY
TRIPOLI MARKED THREE YEARS SINCE
A "DAY OF RAGE" AGAINST LONG-
TIME DICTATOR MOAMMAR GHADDAFI.
THE REVOLT, AIDED BY N.A.T.O.
AIR STRIKES, ULTIMATELY TOPPLED
GADDAFI'S GOVERNMENT
AND ENDED IN HIS DEATH AT THE
HANDS OF REBELS.
IN EGYPT, THE REVOLUTION THAT
FORCED OUT PRESIDENT HOSNI
MUBARAK HAS ALSO GIVEN WAY TO
NEW UPHEAVALS.
THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD TOOK
POWER IN ELECTIONS AFTER
MUBARAK'S OUSTER.
BUT LAST YEAR, DEMONSTRATORS
ROSE UP AGAINST ISLAMIST
PRESIDENT MOHAMMED MORSI
AND A MILITARY COUP REMOVED HIM
FROM OFFICE.
NOW, IT APPEARS ARMY CHIEF ABDEL
FATTEH AL-SISI WILL RUN FOR
PRESIDENT THIS YEAR.
EVEN AS A CRACKDOWN EXPANDS TO
INCLUDE SECULAR GROUPS.
>> ( translated ): WHAT IS
HAPPENING NOW IS A COUNTER-
REVOLUTION AGAINST THE JANUARY
REVOLUTION, THE PURE REVOLUTION
WHICH THE EGYPTIAN PEOPLE UNITED
TO FIGHT FOR FREEDOM, DIGNITY
>> Brown: ISLAMIST MILITANTS
CONTINUE THEIR OWN FIGHT, USING
VIOLENCE, INCLUDING SUNDAY'S
BOMBING OF A TOURIST BUS IN THE
SINAI PENINSULA.
AND EGYPTIANS, LYANSIB AND
OTHERS NEED ONLY LOOK TO SYRIA
FOR THE WORST-CASE SCENARIO,
ALL-OUT CIVIL WAR.
BY ONE ESTIMATE MORE THAN
140,000 SYRIANS HAVE DIED, AND
MILLIONS MORE HAVE BEEN
DISPLACED, SINCE THE UPRISING
THERE BEGAN IN MARCH 2011.
>> Brown: WE THOUGHT WE'D TURN
AGAIN TO THREE PEOPLE WHO'VE
WATCHED EVENTS WITH US SINCE
THEY FIRST BEGAN TO UNFOLD THREE
YEARS AGO.
MARY-JANE DEEB, CHIEF OF THE
AFRICAN AND MIDDLE EASTERN
DIVISION AT THE LIBRARY OF
CONGRESS.
THE VIEWS SHE EXPRESSES HERE ARE
HER OWN.
HISHAM MELHEM IS THE WASHINGTON
BUREAU CHIEF OF AL-ARABIYA NEWS
CHANNEL.
AND TAREK MASOUD IS ASSISTANT
PROFESSOR OF PUBLIC POLICY AT
HARVARD UNIVERSITY.
HE SPECIALIZES IN ISLAMIC
POLITICAL PARTIES AND THEIR ROLE
IN GOVERNANCE.
LET ME START WHERE YOU.
EVERY COUNTRY IS DIFFERENT,
OF COURSE.
WE CAN'T GO THROUGH ALL
THOSE DIFFERENCES.
BUT WHAT CAN BE SAID SO FAR
ABOUT THE FACTORS THAT GO
IN FAILURE?
WELL, IT'S A GREAT QUESTION,
JEFF.
I MEAN I THINK ONE THING IS
THAT WE'VE KNOWN FOR A LONG
TIME THAT THERE ARE CERTAIN
PREREQUISITES TO GETTING
DEMOCRACY.
ARE YOU MUCH MORE LIKELY TO
GET AND KEEP DEMOCRACY IS IF
YOUR COUNTRY IS PRETTY WELL
ECONOMICALLY DEVELOPED.
IF YOU HAVE A HIGHLY
LITERATE POPULATION.
AND IF YOU LOOK ACROSS THE
MIDDLE EAST, THOSE KINDS OF
PREREQUISITES ARE LACKING.
SO IT'S NOT SURPRISING TO ME
THAT TUNESIA SEEMS TO BE THE
ONLY BRIGHT SPOT.
AND IT REALLY IS ON A BRIGHT
SPOT IN COMPARISON TO THE
GRIM STORIES IN EGYPT AND
LIBYA AND SYRIA AN ELSEWHERE
BUT IT'S A BRIGHT SPOT, I
THINK, BECAUSE COMPARED TO
THOSE OTHER COUNTRIES, IT
WAS JUST MUCH MORE DEVELOPED
IT HAS A MUCH MORE MODERN,
LITERATE POPULATION, MUCH
MORE EDUCATED POPULATION.
AND I THINK THAT'S A BIG
PART OF THE STORY HERE.
>> ALL RIGHT SO, LET ME ASK
YOU THE SAME QUESTION, TO
WHAT DEGREE COULD ONE
TRANSLATE WHAT IS PERHAPS A
SUCCESS STORY IN TUNESIA SO
FAR TO OTHER PLACES?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, EACH
COUNTRY IS DIFFERENT.
AND THAT'S THE BASIS OF THE
DIFFERENCES IN THE OUTCOMES
OF AT RAB SPRING.
TUNESIA HAD A CONSTITUTION,
1861.
>> 1861.
AND SO WHILE LIB YA, YOU
KNOW, IS RELATIVELY A NEW
STATE F YOU WANT N MODERN
TERMS.
AND EGYPT ON THE OTHER HAND
HAS CERTAIN BASICALLY
INSTITUTIONS SUCH AS THE
ARMY.
WHICH PLAYS A VERY IMPORTANT
ROLE.
THEREFORE EACH MODEL IS
DIFFERENT.
AND IS THE ORGANIZATION OF
THE STATE AND THE SOCIETY
THAT HAS AFFECTED THE
OUTCOME OF THE ARAB SPRING
IN EACH CASE.
>> SO IN A PLACE LIKE LIBYA
WE SEE THERE ARE SOME
TENTATIVE MOVES TOWARDS
CREATING A CONSTITUTION
AFTER A LOT OF-- EGYPT, WE
TALKED ABOUT WHAT IS GOING
ON.
HOW DO YOU, DO YOU SEE SOME
GENERAL THEME HERE?
>> IF YOU LOOK AT THESE
HOMOGENOUS SOCIETIES, A
COUNTRY LIKE TON YAES WOULD
REFORM TRADITIONS GOING BACK
TO THE 19th CENTURY.
IN FACT, JUST AS AN ANECDOTE,
TON YAES IS THE FIRST
COUNTRY TO OUTLAW SLAVERY IN
THE MUSLIM WORLD AND
OUTLAWED SLAVERY 17 YEARS
BEFORE THE EMANCIPATION
PROCLAMATION IN 1863.
AFTER THE BATTLE OF ANTITUM.
THERE IS A TRADITION OF
SECULARISM IN TUNESIA.
WOMEN ARE HIGHLY EDUCATED
COMPARED TO WOMEN IN THE
REST OF AFRICA AND THE ARAB
WORLD.
TON YAES IS A SMALL COUNTRY,
HOMOGENOUS COUNTRY AND MOST
IMPORTANTLY TON YAES HAD A
SMALL ARMED FORCES.
THIS ARMED FORCES NEVER HAD
A TRADITION OF SHOOTING AT
CIVILIANS IN THE STREET.
BUT WHAT THE IRAQI MILITARY,
AND ALGERIAN MILITARY THAT
ACCOUNTS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT
OF TUNESIA.
TUNESIA IS THE ONLY COUNTRY
THAT WILL MAKE THATR
EGYPT IS A HOMOGENOUS STATE,
MAINLY.
BUT THE ISLAMIST IN EGYPT
AND THE FACT THAT YOU WILL
HAVE STRONG DEMOCRATIC
MOVEMENT, TRADITION, LED
EGYPT TO THIS STATE.
SO ON THE ONE HAND YOU HAVE
THE PERSISTENCE OF THE OLD
ORDER AND THE LACK OF
DEMOCRATIC FORCES THAT
BELIEVE IN --
>> SO ANOTHER BIG QUESTION
HERE SO, THEREFORE DO YOU
LOOK AT, WE'VE HEARD TALK
ABOUT THE ECONOMY, ABOUT THE
RISE OF ISLAMIST MOVEMENTS.
WE HAVEN'T EVEN BROUGHT IN
SYRIA YET.
I RAISED IT IN OUR OPENING
SEGMENT.
WHAT DO YOU LOOK AT MOST, TO
HELP YOU DETERMINE WHAT WE
MIGHT BE TALKING ABOUT NEXT
YEAR AT THIS TIME, OR FIVE
YEARS FROM THIS TIME?
>> OH, WELL, YOU KNOW, IT'S
HARD TO KNOW.
I MEAN SO THERE ARE TWO
DIFFERENT APPROACHES THAT WE
COULD TAKE TO KIND OF DEVINE
THE FUTURES.
THE ONE APPROACH IS THE
REALLY PESSIMISTIC APPROACH
THAT I SHARED WITH YOU.
JUST LOOK AT THEIR LEVEL OF
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
WE KNOW FROM LOOK AT ALL
KINDS OF COUNTRIES ACROSS
HISTORY THAT THE ODDS ARE
NOT REALLY GOOD FOR ANY OF
THESE ARAB COUNTRIES IN
TERMS OF THEIR ABILITY TO
ACHIEVE DEMOCRACY.
BUT WE COULD ALSO, I MEAN WE
COULD TAKE MAYBE A MORE
HOPEFUL VIEW AND LOOK AT THE
ACTUAL PLAYERS IN EACH
COUNTRY AND THINK ABOUT WELL,
OF THE PLAYERS, ARE THEY
CLEVER ENOUGH OR SMART
ENOUGH OR DO THEY HAVE THE
POLITICAL WILL TO KIND OF
OVERCOME SOME OF THESE
OBSTACLES AND DO THE
NECESSARY COMPROMISE THAT
WILL GET THEM TO SOME KIND
OF MORE INCLUSIVE DEMOCRATIC
ORDER.
AND AGAIN SO WHEN YOU LOOK
AT ALL OF THESE PLACES,
THESE THINGS JUST DON'T SEEM
TO BE PRESENT SO IN EGYPT,
YOU KNOW T SEEMS TO ME THAT
THE BEST PREDICTOR OF
EGYPT'S FUTURE IS EGYPT'S
PAST.
EGYPT FROM 1952 HAS
BASICALLY BEEN GOVERNED BY
THE MILITARY.
AND THAT SEEMS TO BE WHAT
HAS IS HAPPENING AGAIN.
IF YOU LOOK AT SAY A COUNTRY
LIKE LIBYA, WHEN QADDAFI WAS
IN CHARGE BASICALLY WHAT
TRIED TO DO WAS DISMANTLE
ANY SEMBLANCE OF A STATE AND
JUST BRIBE THE DIFFERENT
TROIBS THAT LIVED IN LIBYA
WITH OIL MONEY AND SURE
ENOUGH THE BIGGEST PROBLEM
THAT YOU HAVE IN LIBYA RIGHT
NOW IS THAT QADDAFI LEGACY
OF HAVING NO STATE.
AND SO YOU DON'T REALLY HAVE
MUCH OF AN ARMY.
YOU DON'T HAVE MUCH OF THE
APPARATUS OF A NATIONALLY
YUN FIND STATE SO THAT'S
WHAT WE WOULD EXPECT TO BE
THE PROBLEM IN THE FUTURE.
AND YOU KNOW, YEMEN, FOR
EXAMPLE, SIMILAR KIND OF
STORY.
SO REALLY IF YOU LOOK AT
TUNESIA AND WHY IS TUNESIA
SUCH A HOPEFUL STORY.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE LAST 50
YEARS, PARTICULARLY DURING
THE-- DICTATOR WHO PRECEDED
BEN ALI, THERE IS A
LIBERALLIZING MODERNIZING
AUTO CRAT IT IS NOT
SURPRISING THAT COUNTRY IS
GOING IN A SLIGHTLY MORE
LIBERAL AND MODERN
DIRECTION.
I LOOK TO THE PAST.
>> SO YOU CAN PICK UP ON
THAT BUT I ALSO WANT YOU TO
BRING IN SYRIA.
BECAUSE HOW MUCH IS THAT, WE
LOOK AT IT ALL THE TIME ON
ITS OWN.
HOW MUCH OF IT IS AN OUTLIE
TORE WHAT'S HAPPENED IN AT
RAB SPRING OR HOW MUCH OF IT
IS REALLY ALMOST DEFINING
WHAT WILL COME?
>> YOU KNOW, THREE YEARS AGO
WHEN WE WERE LOOKING AT WHAT
WAS HAPPENING IN THE REGION,
I REMEMBER SAYING IT'S A
HOUSE OF CARDS.
IT BEGINS IN ONE COUNTRY AND
THEN IT MOVES TO THE NEXT.
>> BUT WE WERE TALKING ABOUT
IT IN A POSITIVE WAY THEN.
>> WE WERE.
WE WERE LOOKING AT THOSE WHO
WERE ACTUALLY REBELLING.
THOSE WHO WERE ASKING FOR
CHANGE AND REFORM.
AND WE WERE SAYING THE YOUNG
PEOPLE IN THE CITY OF CAIRO
HAVE LEARNED FROM THIS.
PEOPLE IN TUNESIA, AND SO
DID THE LIBYANS.
BUT WHAT WE DIDN'T POINT OUT
WAS THAT THE GOVERNMENTS
WERE LEARNING ALSO FROM THE
EXPERIENCE OF THE OTHERS.
SO TUNESIA AND THE TON ESIAN
PRESIDENT SAID EASILY, WE
WANT EGYPT TO BE LONGER, AND
THEN YOU SEE THE RESISTANCE
BUILDING UP IN LIBYA THEN
EVEN MORE RESISTANCE IN
SYRIA.
AND THE STAKES ARE EVEN
HIGHER IN SYRIA THAN
ELSEWHERE WHERE REALLY THE
FOCUS WAS ONE INDIVIDUAL,
ONE LEADER F YOU WANT.
IN SYRIA IT IS THE FATE OF
TWO MILLION PEOPLE, AND SO
THE STAKES ARE SOME OF
HIGHER IN SYRIA THAN THEY
ARE IN THE OTHER COUNTRIES,
THAT COMPROMISE IS PERHAPS
MORE DIFFICULT.
>> AND NOT ONLY DID
GOVERNMENTS LEARN BUT
ISLAMIC MOVEMENTS, MILITANTS
LEARNED AS WELL.
>> NOT ALL OF THEM.
THE MOVEMENT IN TON YAES
ALONE FROM THE EGYPTIAN
EXPERIENCE, THE PEM OF EGYPT
DID AND WHAT THE EGYPTIAN
MILITARY DID, THAT IS ONE
REASON WHY THERE WERE MORE,
MORE WILLING TO ACCOMMODATE
THE SECULAR FORCES IN UNTON
ESTIQUONSIA.
>> JUST IN OUR LAST MINUTE,
SO WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING AT.
>> WHAT I AM LOOKING AT IS
AT RAB EAST GOING TO BE
ENGULFED IN A LONG NIGHTMARE
THAT WILL LAST FOR YEARS.
SYRIA.
>> YEARS.
>> YEARS AND PROBABLY
DECADES.
SYRIA IS NO LONGER A CIVIL
WAR T SAY REGIONAL WAR WHERE
ISLAMISTS, FROM ALL THE WAY
TO CENTRAL ASIA TO IRAQ, TO
LEBANON, TO IRAN DEFINITELY
ARE FIGHTING AND ENTRENCHED
ISLAMIST, SUNNI DOMINATED
NOW FORCE.
BUT SUPPORTED BY SUNNI
GOVERNMENTS IT IS NOT AN
EXAGGERATION TO TALK ABOUT
ONE CONTINUUM FRONT,
SECTARIAN FRONT THAT IS
BLOODY FROM THE GULF TO THE
EASTERN -- FROM IRAQ TO
SYRIA, TO LEBANON.
AND THE WHOLE ARAB WORLD AND
ARAB EAST MOSTLY, IS
INVOLVED IN THIS WAR.
THE WAR IN SYRIA IS TO THE
GOING TO REMAIN IN SYRIA.
IT IS GOING TO THREATEN
SOUTHERN EUROPE THIS IS NOT
A LANDLOCKED COUNTRY LIKE
AFGHANISTAN.
THE CONSEQUENCE OF THE WAR
IN AFGHANISTAN, WHEN THE
WEST LEFT AFGHAN TO THEIR
OWN DEVICES T IS NO LONGER A
MORAL ISSUE, IT IS A
STRATEGIC ISSUE FOR THE
UNITED STATES TO DO
SOMETHING.
>> ALL RIGHT, VERY SOBERING
INDEED.
THANK YOU ALL THREE ONCE
AGAIN.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE
ANNOUNCED A TRUCE WITH
OPPOSITION FORCES, A DAY AFTER
BATTLES BETWEEN POLICE AND
PROTESTERS LEFT AT LEAST 26
PEOPLE DEAD.
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA AND EUROPEAN
LEADERS WARNED UKRAINE COULD
FACE CONSEQUENCES, IN THE FORM
OF SANCTIONS, IF THERE'S MORE
BLOODSHED.
A CORRECTION BEFORE WE GO:
IN THE NEWS SUMMARY, WE REFERRED
TO STEPHEN HARPER AS THE
PRESIDENT OF CANADA.
HE IS, OF COURSE, THE PRIME
MINISTER.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW, LAW ENFORCEMENT
AGENTS AND DOCTORS ALONG THE
U.S.-MEXICO BORDER ARE NOTICING
A NEW TREND IN THE ILLEGAL DRUG
TRADE: CHEAP PRESCRIPTION
MEDICATION SMUGGLED NORTH ACROSS
THE MEXICAN BORDER.
IT'S A GROWING PRACTICE IN
TEXAS, WHERE THE NUMBER OF
UNINSURED AMERICANS IS HIGH.
READ THE REPORT FROM THE
FRONTERAS DESK, A PUBLIC MEDIA
PARTNER.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT
N.A.F.T.A. AT 20, AND HOW THE
LANDMARK TRADE AGREEMENT HAS
CHANGED THE U.S. ECONOMY.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL,
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE
AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.